Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Today you're going to be treated to a
special two-part episode. We are here in
London and so we wanted to learn about
the business of pubs of course and so we
are bringing you first an interview with
famed publican Rogers. He is the
co-founder of the pub, the Devincure.
And then in the second half, that will
be an interview that was recorded live
at a show that we're doing here in
London with the chef at the Devincshire,
Ashley Palmer Watts.
>> Take a listen.
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
[music]
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, we're in London. I love it here.
>> Yes, it's great.
>> I'm jealous you went to college here.
It's a fun city, isn't [music] it?
>> It's lovely. Uh it's even more fun to be
back and have resources to actually go
out and do things. [laughter] Um but
yes, it's great.
>> It's a fun uh it's a fun city. Uh you
know, we've talked about this before.
Some of my re really some of my favorite
episodes and I mean this completely
unironically are when we talk to people
in the food service industry in some way
because I truly think that you know what
we specialize in which is sort of where
the macro meets the micro etc. There are
so many whether it's labor costs, food
costs, etc. There are so many things h
consumer sentiment, consumer appetites,
there are so many things that only
someone in that specific industry gets a
real view on at a at any given moment.
>> No, totally. Restaurants and food
service in general are great microcosms,
great microcosms, macro trends. And so
since we're in London, you know, a lot
of the same restaurants, lot fairly a
lot of the same things, but of course
there are a lot of pubs here and we
don't have as many in the US. And to the
extent we have them in the US, they are
not the same. They're like fake, right?
They're like they're replicas. They're
bars that have the aesthetics and of a
of a pub. I don't know what a pub is
actually.
>> Can I say one thing? So, I woke up this
morning and I turned on BBC News and one
of the top headlines was two pubs
closing every day. And for as long as I
can remember since I came to the UK for
university and then stayed for a decade,
every year there have been these reports
saying that pubs are closing down. And
it's been going on, I guess, for 20
years now. And I'm very curious what is
cited as the reason now? because you
would feel like the reason pubs are
closing in say 2002 versus why they're
closing in 2026 would be different.
>> Yeah.
>> But the trend overall seems to remain
the same.
>> It seems tough. Supposedly Gen Z they
don't drink as much which I think but
that can't you know that doesn't explain
why that would have been a trend in say
2002. Right.
>> Right. That's my point.
>> There was another headline recently.
Apparently the uh uh uh a pant has
breached the 10 pound mark in some Oh,
>> which is like a big deal. places. I
mean, in New York, if you $10, like
we're used to that. But I guess the 10,
you know, pounds are worth more pubs
that sort of
>> there would have been a riot at my
university if anyone tried to charge 10
pounds for a pint.
>> So anyway, while we're here,
>> of course, back then we were all
drinking terrible things like Bikardi
Breezers and things like that. But
anyway, carry on.
>> Um, you know, my wife, she briefly
worked at a pub in Ireland and
apparently they got really upset with
her for the quality of her poor. They
were like, "Oh, not drinking that." Oh.
>> Oh, yeah. She did. Anyway, I don't think
that lasted very long. Anyway, we're
here in London. We got to do a pub
episode.
>> Let's do it.
>> Anyway, I'm very excited to say we
really do have the perfect guest. We're
going to be speaking with one of the
most famous, if not the most famous
publican in uh in this in in in the UK.
I don't exactly know what a publican is
or what defines a publican.
>> You're about to find out.
>> I'm about to find out. We're going to be
speaking with uh Oshene Rogers. He is
the co-founder of the Devonshshire, the
Devonshire, one of the most popular pubs
in the city. We're going to learn all
about the pub business. So, Ashen, thank
you so much for uh coming on out.
>> Joe, it's great to be here. Thank you so
much.
>> Thank you for coming on. What is a pub?
What's the difference? I I' I've flown
all the way from New York City to London
to ask just one simple question. Then
when I get the answer, I'll be ready to
go.
>> I think this is actually an important
question.
>> What is the difference between a pub and
a bar?
>> Well, everywhere has got bars. Bars are
places that people go to drink. you
know, they're places for that occasion
to just go and drink, but pubs are much
more sort of connected into the fabric
of British and Irish society. Okay. I
think honestly they only really work
well on these islands. I think what you
said is right about the US. Yes, you do
have pubs, but they're not the same. I
think the pub pubs have a timelessness.
A lot of the ones that are really great
have been around for a very long time
and they they they they have a function
uh for people to meet in a in a kind of
a a neutral space where you can actually
have drinks, have a chat, end up uh
meeting people you wouldn't normally
hang out with. And they're also a place
of chaos and wonder and beauty and a bit
of, you know, art and, you know, it's
somewhere you can actually kick your
shoes off and really enjoy and not know
what's going to happen next. And they're
a place for great stories. Can you
explain the sort of landscape of British
pubs where you have independent
institutions such as your own versus a
lot of chains? Um I was in a Samuel
Smith pub the other day.
>> We don't have bar chains.
>> Punch Taverns used to be the big one. I
guess Weather Spoons. Oh my gosh.
Weather Spoons um was a place where I
spent a lot of time in the early 2000s.
Um just explain how it works here in
terms of ownership. So pubs go back at
least a thousand years, probably a lot
longer than that, where people opened
their houses and made ale or sold ale
and uh let people come and uh kick back
and enjoy themselves. I think during the
18th and 19th centuries mostly the
brewers started becoming more powerful.
So there was lots of regional brewers in
all around and there still are and some
of them are still amazing and they
tended to try and buy pubs up so that
they could sell their wares through
those businesses and quite a lot of
those pub codes in the sort of early
20th century you know right up until the
50s they'd have a thousand pubs or some
had up to 3,000 pubs and that sort of
became more commercial in the 80s those
pubs started getting traded as as lots
and and bulk and then there came uh like
Allied brewery at one stage had 6,000
pubs. Um we still have big um operators
that come from those brewers like
Stonegate, like Weatherspoons, like you
said. You know, we got smaller ones in
London like Fullers and Youngs and you
got Mitchells and Butlers that own the
majority of the successful pubes across
the the country. Free houses have always
been um you know harder to find and more
difficult to run because you don't have
the economy of scale. Um but um I love a
free house and I worked for a long time
in the managed house uh uh business and
it was great to work there too.
>> Before we get to your current pub, give
us a little bit of your history. What
were you doing prior to opening the dev?
>> Prior to opening the dev, well go back
to me. I went to university in Dublin in
uh 1986. I studied chemistry, physics,
applied maths. Uh I was going to become
a food tech engineer. Um I didn't enjoy
university much. Got a job in a pub
called the Stags Head part-time. loved
that more than anything else. Gave up on
university and since then since 1986
I've worked in pubs and in 1991 had my
first pub in London and I've run a lot
of pubs in London in in that time and
the Devonshire is the the one.
>> When did you open the Devincure?
>> Devincure opened in November 23. So
we're there about two and a half years
but it feels like 20.
>> What was the thinking? Because as you
say opening an independent pub is a
pretty big challenge.
>> Well I think the Devonshire might be a
little bit more than a pub. We've got
this wonderful restaurant upstairs, um,
it's in an incredible location right in
the center of the city. I always felt
that the West End and the city, while it
has some really great pubs, most of them
are very small and and a lot of them are
not amazingly good. And we wanted to
open something that was really
attractive that would make people feel
comfortable and safe and happy and have
really great products. And we found this
great big site right by Piccadilly
Circus. And we just turned it into a pub
on the ground floor with an amazing
restaurant upstairs. And it's been fun.
I will say the reason I was in a Sam
Smith pub last night was because we were
waiting for a theater ticket and there
weren't a lot of good options. I
probably should have gone just a little
further to the Devonshire.
>> Well, next time Tracy, you'll be so
welcome. Be great to see you.
>> You mentioned food just then and this
seems to be a key thing in the survival
of pubs nowadays, which is if you can
tack on gastronomy of some sort and good
food, the economics seem to shift quite
a lot.
>> They they completely change if I'm
honest for lots of reasons. Um, you
know, when I go back, you know, 20 years
ago, there was very little food in pubs.
Everybody smoked in the in the pubs and
you could smoke at the at the counter
and the whole place was full of smoke.
So, you wouldn't consider eating
anything. And that gradually changed. So
we moved more towards um you know snacks
you could eat standing up and then table
meals and then the gastro pub started in
about 1991 to95 and that's really become
a thing where gastrop pubs are now
really restaurants and there's a sort of
a real sort of um a border so happening
between pubs and restaurants where where
you can do both they can be very
successful because the pub brings people
in and people can drink before and after
their meal in in the in the bar area and
uh you know It's a really nice convivial
environment. It's not and they're not as
codified as restaurants if you know what
I mean. You can sort of you can sort of
they're more higgled piggledy. You can
sort of get away with a little bit more
chaos and you know it's they're more fun
I think in a lot of in a lot of a lot of
ways. You know you find a great gastro
pub in the country you're going to want
to go back and the same across London.
We've got some amazing ones.
>> Did you say it was more like because of
the elimination of indoor smoking that
actually created the space for this
notion of a gastro? Was that crucial?
>> I would say that was an economic
earthquake for pubs in in lots for lots
of reasons because lots of the old
drinkers at that time would have stopped
coming in because they couldn't smoke
indoors and they they would have gone on
strike and and and drank less. So
something had to be done. So they needed
to attract a new audience. And it was
really exciting for people to go back to
pubs because your pub your your your
clothes wouldn't smell of smoke anymore.
So a new sort of audience started coming
in and younger people started drinking
in there with an expectation of
cocktails and Bikardi Breezers like you
mentioned earlier came straight out of
that and all those hooch drinks and
stuff you know so it's been a it's
always been changing but at the same
time it's always been timeless and the
same. We're in the business of making
people feel comfortable, safe, happy,
welcome, well looked after and people
need that and they love it.
>> Does anyone still drink snake bites?
>> Uh I hope thank thankfully not. No,
wait. What was the snake bite?
>> It was like this terrible concoction of
it was beer and then like some sort of
cordial or cider and then like a sweet
thing in it.
>> Current. Well, it always worries me that
the you you you've beer which is clear
and beautiful and fizzy and then you've
cider which is clear and beautiful and
fizzy. You mix the two of them together,
it becomes this really cloudy thing that
you've got to color it purple with the
black currant in order to make it sweet
enough to drink. I'm I'm certain it's
not good for you and I don't sell very
much of it thankfully. [laughter]
Can
>> I ask you a question and we're not going
to name names any here names here. So
that uh we're you know what's a bad pub?
You say like okay you you you said oh
you looked around you didn't see many
good pubs. You mentioned uh uh you
didn't see there there seemed to be a
der of good ones. What is it you walked
into a pub is like this doesn't have it.
What's missing in a bad
>> I think you you there's lots of things.
I think how we how we are made to feel
is always an amalgamation of the inputs
that we've got. So that's what we we
hear, what we smell, what we see, what
we taste, and what we touch. Okay? If
you walk into a place and you see that
the person who's likely to be serving
you is miserable or the lighting is too
bright or too dark or it or or it sounds
wrong, like the music is wrong or it
smells horrid or something's not quite
right in terms of the visual noise that
you see and it's not beautiful. the
chances of you having a great time and
feeling great are already diminished
before you go anywhere near the counter
and buy anything. So, we always think
about those sensual inputs when we're
when we're being good in terms of making
sure that it looks clean and bright and
that the staff are in the right mindset
to make people feel comfortable in in
that they're comfortable and safe and
happy themselves and well paid and you
know it's it's it's an amalgamation of
those things that makes atmosphere and
atmosphere is the key and making sure
that that is there. Can I ask about
constraints because you know when I
think of pubs okay there's the beer and
then there's certain dishes that I
associate with pub food the scotch egg
the sausage roll and I'm always
fascinated by a lot of in any field a
lot of creativity comes from figuring
out what you can do with a certain set
of constraints and I have to imagine
that there is a certain you know you
deviate too much and it's no longer a
pub anymore it's a bar or something like
What are the constraints with which you
feel like you're op in a in a gastro pub
where you're food and beer or food and
alcohol? What are the formal constraints
where if you go beyond this, you're
something other than a pub?
>> I think it's a really good question. I'm
going to answer it by saying it's a kind
of a spectrum. So, on one end, you've
got the the codified restaurant where
you have to reserve and you sit at a
square table and you never talk to
anyone else apart from your server and
your guest. On the other end, you've got
a wet pub that doesn't sell any any food
at all. And you can just wander in
there, have a pint, and end up standing
anywhere you want. You can't reserve any
area, and you can have a drink and stay
as long as you want. In between, you've
kind of got the gastro pub, which is in
the middle. Some of it will be reserved
for guests, and some of it will be
chaotic, and you can go and have a beer.
And there's this whole sliding scale all
the way along. And the bit from a a a
good wet pub with good food to a gastro
pub that is definitely a restaurant is
actually really wide. So there's lots of
lots of different places you could go in
between. So it's really hard to define.
And actually I hate the word gastro pub
because it no longer means anything
because that in that middle of the
spectrum is actually so wide that you
don't you want to know where that that
business is.
>> So I I take the point there are
different formats so to speak of pubs.
such as ones that just serve drinks and
others that serve food. But have you
noticed in your decades of publican
experience? Have you noticed a shift in
the way people actually use pubs and why
they're there?
>> I I think so. I totally have. I'm going
to go back to the smoking ban again
because before the smoking ban, every
pub had stools all the way around the
bar like you do in the US. Whereas
before the smoking ban, they thought
that they could sort of mitigate against
it by moving people away from the bar so
that the staff wouldn't be breathing the
smoke in and they thought that was going
to be okay. And so therefore, they
didn't allow people to sit at the bar
anymore as much. So people sort of
retreated away and I think it became a
little less social then and to and we're
trying to bring that back. So we've
brought all our stools back to the bar
so people are likely to be
shoulderto-shoulder and chat away and
stuff like that. I think it's always
changing, but it's also always the same.
You know, they're play they're places
where community gets together. And the
great thing about pubs as well is they
tend to be very democratic. In other
words, you'll get people who can just
about afford to have a beer and you can
get people who could buy the whole
place. And they can be
shoulderto-shoulder too and chatting to
each other. And there's there's a kind
of a leveling when you're just having a
pint. And I've seen it many times where
you'll get the guy who's been sweeping
the street or cleaning or or cleaning
your car or fixing your car sitting
beside a CEO or a judge or you know a
senior leader and they'll have great fun
and that doesn't happen in many places
and I think we're really proud to be
able to do that and have that democracy.
>> Let's talk more about the business
specifics of the dev. You already hinted
at it but tell more. Let's start with
okay location. What did you see in this
specific spot such that you had this
could be an ambitious big investment?
>> Well, I really felt that you know that
democracy of of of demographic and of
age is really important so that you're
able to attract everybody. You're right
in the middle of central London
literally at Piccadillia. It's about the
busiest footfall place you could
possibly find. So we knew the market was
there and but what we needed to do was
make sure we we we made a place that
people would want to come to as well. So
we just did it and we thought about it
for a couple of years together, me and
Ashley and Charlie and we were very
careful about what our unique selling
points would be and we really stuck with
those. We also felt that it was
important that people would feel that
they had value for time and value for
money when they came in. So, as well as
being able to spend, you know, two and a
half grand on a bottle of 2001 chat
leit, we can still have a pint of beer
for $4.95. So, and we we stick to that
now. Uh we've got the set menu for
$29.95 or the scotch egg for $4.95,
which I hope you had last time you were
in. And
>> I love the scotch.
>> And you can and you can still spend, you
know, 150 quid on an incredible piece of
dry-aged Scottish beef, which will be be
amazing. So you've got that whole sort
of sliding scale of of of spend and
that's really important to us that
people can get in there, have a great
time and not spend a lot but at the same
time if they want to spend a lot they
can and they do.
>> Just to be clear which came first was it
the building was coming up for sale and
so you thought this would be a good
opportunity or was it you wanted to
start your own pub and so you went out
looking for locations?
>> So we were out looking for locations cuz
we wanted to do a pub. We knew we wanted
to do a pub with really great food.
There are very very few big pubs in
central London but
>> because it's a very large building.
>> Well, the Devincure as it is was a pub
before. It was called the Devincure
right up until 2009, but it was less
than half the size it is now. In fact,
probably a quarter the size. So, when
that when that closed down in 2009, uh
the landlords took the building back and
they put it together with the building
next door and they knocked it through to
turn it into a huge restaurant. And that
was Jamie Oliver's first Jaimes Italian.
And uh he was incredibly successful. I
love Jamie, by the way. And he did a
fabulous job there up until his business
ran away from him a little bit in 2019.
Uh and it closed just before the the
pandemic. So, we'd always had our eye on
it, hoping that, you know, we could
persuade the city to turn it back into a
pub and that we might be able to operate
it. And that was a that was that was a
big journey for us to to make that
happen. Just real quickly, does the city
have a a finite number of pub licenses
or like or is it just you have to meet a
bar? What's the
>> It's a very complicated question.
Basically, if you have a pub license,
you can operate it and obviously trade
it and send sell it in the same
location. When pub licenses like the old
Devonshire one lapse, they're gone. So,
to apply for a new pub license and be
granted it is very unusual, particularly
in Westminster, but we managed to make
it happen. Wait, so this is one of the
things that always comes up when you see
the reports about pub closures in the
UK. It's too much tax, heavy regulation.
Can you walk us through like when people
say regulatory burden on pubs, what
exactly does that mean?
>> Well, the biggest regulatory burden we
have is is licensing, which is obviously
for public safety to make sure that you
don't do things like have too many
people in, open at the wrong time, serve
people who are drunk, encourage crime,
all of those stuff. But they can those
those those those burdens those can be
very burdensome in some locations for
lots of reasons. You've also got to make
sure your neighbors are happy that you
don't make too much noise.
>> Well, I heard noise ordinances were also
a major issue.
>> There's a big issue with that
particularly in the suburbs outside.
There's lots of regulations about when
you can have deliveries because of what
time they'll come and go, how much noise
they'll be, where you store your bins,
what time they're collected, how your
bottles are handled. There's there's
lots and lots of things. But of course,
all of these regulations are there for
the benefit of our of our society and
our communities and most of them are
great, but some of them can be quite
burdensome for for for for businesses.
So, I mentioned at the beginning, I
really was not trying to put my wife on
blast by mentioning that she got scolded
for her pouring, but you know, I take it
that
labor is an important factor, skilled
labor is an important is an important
factor. Absolutely. Um talk to us about
like the market for that and the supply
and the ease with which one can hire uh
not just a bartender who's capable of
the poor but someone who's happy and
someone who if you put such an emphasis
on making the customers feel welcome and
warm and so forth. What does that look
like today?
>> We really look for people who who will
feel comfortable in our environment. So
people who've got great skills at
relating to others, great skills at
wooing people to have a nice time,
people who will work hard and you know
are able to believe what we believe in
terms
>> is it hard to find if I like if if you
found a skilled bartender today would
you be like yeah come in
>> absolutely um we find ourselves quite
lucky and anecdotally I don't see that
issue that people keep saying that young
people don't want to work. Our best
workers are between 18 and 23 years old.
We've got a dozen amazing examples of
that who are so reliable, so
hardworking, incredibly happy, very
efficient, and thankfully really well
looked after by us. And I I I'm really
proud of that. And it's great. And some
of a lot of my colleagues in town in
some of the better restaurants are
saying the same thing that that the kids
really are all right.
>> How competitive is your pay in the world
of pubs to this point? And then also,
were you affected by Brexit at all in
terms of your labor supply?
Um I think Brexit was once again a
little bit of a shock in that we did
lose a lot of our sort of casual
Italian, French, uh German, uh Spanish
and Greek uh team. A lot of those were
able to apply at the time uh for right
to remain and stay and a lot of them
did. Um but a lot we lost a few and but
then the tap turned off to them. Um
however we are finding that there are
other um nationalities and other
channels of people coming through and a
lot of our very best employees are
British now and we're very proud of
that. the 10 pound pint. What's going on
there with that? And is it just a few
locations and what are you seeing
pricing like?
>> I I think prices have gone up and that's
gone up because of the cost of
production, the cost of transport, the
cost of the raw materials, the cost of
everything going on ahead. But I think
it's rising at the same steepness that
it always has. And I can never remember
a year when public house people, you
know, pub people all got together and
said, "Oh, we've been amazing. It's
smashed to this year. There's always
there's always a element of doom and
gloom and you know I try to avoid it as
much as I can and we try to give people
great value for money. We keep a pint on
that's less than a fiverr always. Our
biggest seller is Guinness which is 720
now. I think that's fair. Um but I think
it it's true you can if you want to go
and find a pint for£10 but is that the
place you're going to really want to
drink? I don't think so.
>> How does it work with your suppliers?
How much pricing power or negotiating
power do you actually have when you're
putting in orders for your drinks?
>> So, what we try and do and I think what
most of the industry does is to fix our
prices for a long period of time. Okay?
>> So, we'll know what volume we're going
to do. We'll speak to lot of suppliers
and tender out our our um our our our
purchasing. They'll come back to us with
a price. We'll make a decision and then
we can do the budget. We try and keep it
as simple as that. And, you know, with
uh some of our suppliers, we're fixed
more or less now for three years. So,
I'm pretty happy with that.
>> On Guinness specifically, go on. People
are very weird about, oh, you can't get
a good Guinness in the United States, so
then you're in London. You can't get a
good Guinness in London. I can never
know if that's just like one of these
things that's in people's head, etc.
Where do you stand on the question of is
one even capable of getting a good
Guinness like within is there a certain
diameter around Ireland in which the qu
the quality of your Guinness pores
declines.
>> All of the Guinness in the UK now is
made in Dublin. It's exactly the same as
what you get in Dublin.
>> When it arrives in the pub, however,
there's probably 30 variables that can
make a difference as to what it tastes
like when it gets to the glass and you
taste it. So in order to get those 30
variables spot on is really really
diffic
it's in the width of the line it comes
through the um mixture of gas that you
push it through with the temperature of
the cooler the um speed it comes through
the line the kind of tap you've got how
clean your glass is. Lots and lots of
things. Do you do a lot of testing on
these things and like so like talk to as
a as as someone who at one point went
into was envisioning going into food
science. Talk a little bit about that
science of how you figured out for the
dev the optimal temperature mix of gas
and so forth. This is what we actually
selling Guinness for 40 years. So I knew
that most of the most of the way it's
done in the UK is different and not
necessarily the best way.
>> All right. So when when I was before we
did the Devonshire, me and my uh
business partners went to Dublin and we
spent some time having a look around. So
we went into the sellers where the beer
was being stored and we had a look at
the temperatures, the pressures, the gas
they were using, the amount of time that
they left it to sit, how wide the lines
were, what temperature the coolers were,
how quick it was coming through at the
top. We looked at the nozzles, the taps,
and all of that. And we did a big study
on the best way to do it. and we put
together our way of doing it which might
not be exactly this way anyone else does
but somehow it works and people think
our Guinness tastes great and I'll
believe that if they tell me so I'm very
pleased about it. Can you explain, I
guess, from a cultural perspective, why
the pouring of a pint looms so large in
the UK psyche? Because this is something
like you don't really have this in the
US, right? Like people are not going to
complain that like the the foam was
>> cime. Yeah. Well, I'll tell you what I
think it is. I think it goes back to
that timelessness and that there's a
performance that happens behind a bar.
Yeah,
>> if you think of the best pubs you've
ever seen, the bar is always kind of in
the space where you can see it from
everywhere. So, it becomes like a stage
in a theater and the and the and the
staff are like the players. So, the
customers want to know that they're
doing their very best and that they can
talk about something that's benal and
won't cause offense. So, the great thing
about talking about your Guinness with
someone you don't know is, you know,
you're not going to fall out because
you're not going to get into any
political territory. You're not going to
talk about religion or race or anything
like that. You can go, "Well, I know a
place where there's slightly better one
and they do this and I can split the G
and this tastes really great and this is
my favorite one." And it's kind of a
gorgeous, beautiful, banal, uh, sociable
thing to be able to banter about and
know that you're not going to cross any
red lines and know that you're going to
have a fun time. And I think that's
really important. There's both the
theorat the theat the theatrical and
performance part and then there's the
sociable part. It's a really lovely
thing to be able to talk about.
>> I think British people also love to
complain and so having [laughter]
and I can say that because I'm married
to a Brit, but like having something to
unite around and complain about
>> that makes sense. It's such a piece like
talk to anyone you're never going to get
in too much of a fight. It's never going
to be too much, you know.
>> I've literally never seen someone fall
out about a Guinness or a conversation
about Guinness. It's always fun.
>> Yeah, that that makes a lot of sense.
So, speaking of speaking,
>> as I've gotten older, I've become very
sensitive to loud places. I like walk by
a place, there's booming music.
>> I'm like, I don't want to walk into
there. Obviously, I want to have a
conversation with someone. talk to us
about sound design and that um and how
building an environment that is
conducive to a conversation.
>> I think that's really important for pubs
and I have a particular view on this
that people might not always agree on. I
don't think that having sports and TVs
in traditional pubs is a good idea. I
also don't think that having background
music on speakers is a good idea.
>> And some do.
>> Some do and some disagree with me. But
for me, I think it's best to leave it
out. And I think that the sound you
should hear is the sound of convivial
chat in the background and the, you
know, the clink of glasses and people
having fun. And I think that's a very
calming uh sound to have. And we think
also really carefully about how sound
would travel through through a space. I
think the very best post and
particularly the old ones if you look at
them, they've got screens and little
places you can hide and sort of um
textured wallpapers on the ceilings and
on the on the walls so the sound doesn't
bounce around as much. It's a much more
dead space and they use really thick old
carpets as well so that you know you can
have a private conversation and you
can't be overheard and there's places
you can hide and places you can sort of
not be seen and I think that's really
important and you know having you know a
lot of some sometimes places are great
big square boxes where if you say
something the sound travels everywhere
and we really avoid that in our design.
I love pubs with little like hidden
nooks and crannies. Like there's there's
a great one um which I recommended to
one of our producers yesterday uh the
Cheshure Cheese just down Fleet Street.
>> Love that place with all the little
rooms and things. You know, we mentioned
the headlines about pubs closing. Can
you diagnose the problem here? Like if
you had to give us a summary of what
exactly is going on, what is it?
>> I I I think a lot of it is down to
historical stuff.
Um, the pub was, you know, 100 years ago
the place where people spent all of
their leisure time. Whereas leisure time
has now been carved up with sport, with
live music, with concerts, with TV, with
>> scrolling on your phone at home.
>> You can do that at a pub.
>> Yeah. But I think the best pubs are up
there fighting alongside it um for that
for that for those for those occasions.
And I think we're entering a golden age
for pubs because, you know, while the
world is saying that we're all going to
move into this two-dimensional AI space
where we'll be, you know, playing games
and looking at stuff on screens, I can
see anecdotally that people are coming
in and really loving the shared
experience of the chaos of being in a in
a room full of other humans. And I think
that that's going to translate into all
sorts of stuff like sport, into being
able to go to musical concerts, into
going to the zoo or, you know, spending
time in spaces with real people. It's
far more exciting than what everybody's
banging on about with AI.
>> Don't the Sam Smith pubs, I'm sorry to
keep going on about them, but don't they
ban phones? They certainly do. And
that's a that's a really interesting
company and worth digging into because
old Humphrey Smith who runs that firm,
he's a bit like Willy Wonka in a good
way. And all of their beers, you know,
they still make them themselves. They
make their own vodka. They they bottle
their own wine. They they really closed
closed company and very interesting.
>> Talk to us a little bit more about young
people and or one of the things you hear
is that young people don't drink as much
as the older generations do. Another
pretty contemporary trend that is not
young people per se is the rise of
GLP-1s
and which supposedly also um curtail
people's desire to drink alcohol.
>> I can't imagine Guinness is an
attractive proposition if you're taking
ompic so what are you seeing in terms of
like consumer tastes among newer young
newer younger people right now? Um, I
think this this this whole um story that
young people don't drink has been
massively exaggerated. Okay. I I I see
loads of people, you know, between 18
and 25 still piling in and, you know,
having pints and having fun in the same
way as I did uh when when I was that
age. And yeah, maybe they are overall
drinking a little bit less and maybe
being a bit more healthy, which is a
great thing, but they certainly enjoy a
few beers. And I think if you if you
start off in business thinking, "Oh,
young people don't drink anymore, so I'm
not going to look after him." They they
certainly are not going to come in. I
think we need to look after those guys
and make sure that they feel comfortable
and safe and keep the pub as a center of
community for them so that they can use
it in the same way we did.
>> This is a very cliched journalistic
question, but what's the hardest part of
running a pub?
Uh the hardest part I think is deciding
you're going to do it because if you do
it and you do it well, it's it's a real
vocation and you do it all the time. You
it's not a pract
>> I never turn off. So I spend six or
seven days a week in the pub. Uh I'll be
there at least a few hours a day,
sometimes the whole day.
>> Um and to do it well, I think you got to
be there.
>> What are you doing when you're there?
Like when you when you're on site,
what's uh what are you doing? Is it
management
>> yelling at people Gordon Ramsay style?
>> Yeah, [laughter]
>> we don't we don't yell. But no, it it
does. We've got 165 staff, so just
meeting and looking after them and
making sure they're feeling good is a is
a really great thing. I I obsess about
details, about making sure that
everything is clean and there's no
visual noise around the place and that
people know to keep that stuff correct.
I'm always looking at, you know,
paintwork and finishes and where stuff
is placed and making sure things are
like that. But to me, it feels a little
bit now I've moved on in my career, it
feels more like conducting an orchestra.
So, I can see what everybody's doing. I
I love catching my team doing things
correctly and right. I love them going
above and beyond. And I I I just love
working with with these these brilliant
people that I work with. So, you know, I
just spending time with people is what
I've I've I've put my life to and it's
really great.
>> Sorry, I'm laughing because I'm thinking
about the story that you told about your
wife not being able to pour a pint. And
>> can I tell you that was not her fault
>> because that's a training issue
>> because if she had been properly shown
how to do it, then that would not have
happened. So,
>> I don't think she was trained. I think
she was just thrown in there.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> This is exactly what I was going to say.
So, my husband very briefly worked as a
bartender at Weatherspoons.
got zero training, was basically thrown
into it and made all sorts of mistakes,
including pouring everyone like the top
shelf gin before he [laughter] was
actually told about the cheap stuff and
also mixing up hoisonen and barbecue
sauce at one point and things like that.
>> But what I was going to ask actually,
>> you know, working in pubs or restaurants
is sort of a notoriously pressurized
environment and sometimes kind of an
abusive environment. Has your management
style changed at all over the years? Do
you find the way you manage people now
is different to what you would have been
doing in the 1990s or early 2000s?
>> I don't think it's marketkedly
different, but I am super aware that
managing people well and making sure
that they feel empowered and that they
know what's going on and that they feel
comfortable, safe, and happy is
everything. because when our when our um
employees feel that I know that the
business accelerates and that has been
really what I've concentrated on in
terms of having seen you know unpleasant
things in the past in kitchens and
around once again thankfully not in my
places but certainly I think there was a
lot of that around and I hope there's
not much of it about now
>> just uh you know just on the the
business question having started you
know the the dev is
the inflation that happened in 202122
exploded everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you mentioned that you're always
going to have a pint that's under five
quid, but talk to us just about like
when you think about menu design or when
you think about beer selection or just
when you think about the business in
general, managing a pub today with
today's raw commodity, raw input prices,
etc. versus say if we had been having
this conversation in the mid2010s or in
the mid90s like how different is it
because of the reality of just the high
cost of many things.
>> I think footfall is hardest is is has
been hit the most in pubs and that's the
big killer. I I I think if you're
selling hundreds of pints a day, you're
not so much worried about the margins.
Okay.
>> And you know, I'd like to I I always
have flipped it on the on its head for
us in that we've always gone for volume.
So when we're full, we're not so
worried. Yes, of course, our costs are
really high. Um, but you know, when you
have margin and that it kind of balances
itself out and what's the key in a a
business, finding a business partner,
this is always a really difficult thing
in any business, right? going into
business with someone or two people or
finding the right investor that will be
aligned timewise and margin-wise and
return-wise. Having done this now, what
are some of the important things to know
for whether it's a pub or even anything
about the type of person you're willing
to go into business with?
>> I would say don't go into business with
someone who has got the same skills as
you
>> because you because you will both be
doing the same thing. You need to find
someone who has completely different
skills to you. And in the case of me,
Ashley and Charlie, it's a perfect
example.
Charlie is a big picture guy. He's set
up his own restaurant chain, uh, Flat
Iron, and was incredibly successful
there. He thinks really from the from
the top down. He's very commercial. He's
brilliant in meetings when it comes down
to the financial side of things and
great like that. We've got Ashley who
spent 20 years working alongside the
best chef in the world, earned five
Michelin stars in that time. His
attention to detail on the food and
product and purchasing side is second to
none. And he's also a wonderful guy and
I think you're going to be speaking to
him which is great.
>> Um he is has the best um pallet for
tasting things I've ever seen. He knows
ingredients inside and out. And he was
able to really choose dishes that we
could do all year round so we don't have
to change them. So we don't have to be
seasonal like everybody else. And that
makes a big difference on the impact of
cost.
>> Yeah.
>> And then there's me who's the, you know,
front of house guy. I I'll I'll front
the business, talk to everybody, operate
the thing. So we're like three three
corners of a of a of a working triangle.
And for me that has been unbelievable.
And you know we do have some similar
skills you know in terms of the business
but the the main ones are all very very
far apart and that has made us really
strong.
>> This is actually the perfect segue into
the next segment of our conversation and
our next guest but one other thing I
would love to ask and I apologize in
advance for asking it so directly but
what are the margins actually like for a
pub like yours?
>> We're pretty happy. I I I think I'm
because we're a private business and we
don't necessarily have to say well I'm
I'm going to keep that discreet but
>> we're certainly at a similar level to
the marketplace if not maybe a little
bit higher and I think good pubs are
still converting at you know between 15
and 25%. Um but you know it's a great
position to be in if we were at that.
Ash, thank you so much for uh coming on
OddLos. That was great.
>> Joe, I'm absolutely delighted to be on
the podcast. I listen to it all the time
and seeing and hearing your voice at the
same time. Same for you, Tracy, has been
a great pleasure. So, thank you so much
for having me on. I'm really
>> Thank you. I'm glad we made this happen.
>> Cheers, Putty.
>> All right, so that was our conversation
recorded in our London studio with Oyen
Rogers.
>> And now you're going to hear our live
episode recorded with Chef Ashley Palmer
Watts. I love the Devonshire, by the
way. It's a great spot. That's a good
start.
>> Yes, a good start. Now,
I'm going to ask you to expose your
trade secrets and give us in the most
excruciating detail possible the
conditions to serve the perfect pint of
Guinness. Pre the pub, I asked my now
partner Oshim um what were all the myths
busted and what were the truths? He
said, "Look, it's going to take an hour.
We don't have an hour, so I'm going to
topline it for you."
>> Okay.
>> Um basically, it starts with obviously
the beer coming in.
And then you need to let it settle and
you need to bring the temperature down
>> really I mean slowly but I mean it takes
a couple of days
>> so it will come into the um sort of
corridor I mean we sell a lot so we've
not got enough space so it's everywhere
every door you open it's it's there
>> it sits in the corridor comes gently
down then it goes under the street in
the sort of al caves in there and it
comes down that's all chilled that comes
down then it goes into the cellar so
about two days later. Okay. It's then it
then sits there, doesn't get disturbed
again until you tap it and you start
serving it. The pipes from the cellar to
the tap are the shortest it can possibly
be from the cellar to upstairs. So, it's
directly underneath the bar. Then you
have the right um circumference of the
of the pipe
>> to allow the right flow.
>> Okay.
>> Then it's about pressure.
>> Okay. You need to put pressure enough
pressure through to pour it in about 13
14 seconds up to the top of the heart.
Okay?
>> And then you have that 90-second rest on
the on the font.
>> The pressure of the gas, there's two
gases. There's nitrogen and CO2.
>> Okay?
>> Now, in Ireland, they they do a an 8020
80 nitrogen, 20 CO2. In England, we're
kind of made to buy a premixed gas,
which is 7525.
We actually mix our own and our own
little magic number is 8218.
And then from there it's about the type
of um there's a little plate in the
porer with five tiny holes like pin
holes.
>> Okay.
>> Um and depending on which one of those
you choose gives you your texture, your
and then it's a balance. So it's it's
pressure, gas mix, temperature, and
time. and then trying to get everyone to
follow that and really understand it and
respect that. And there you go.
>> That was awesome.
[applause]
>> Can I just say this seems like a lot of
work. [laughter]
Can
>> I asked uh your your partner this
question, but I would be curious to get
your thoughts as well, and I'm going to
play the role of like ignorant American
here, but why does pouring a good pint
loom so large in the British
consciousness? Because in the US, you
know, someone hands us a bottle of Bud
Light, we don't really complain that
much. Maybe we should.
>> Yeah, I guess it's quicker, I suppose.
But I mean, you know, the the thing
about pubs is they're so they're so
British. It's part of our heritage that
I think it is for literally everyone,
right? It doesn't matter who you are,
how rich you are, how poor you are, what
you're there for, whether it's catching
up with friends or you're sad or you're
happy or or whatever or just on your own
with your own thoughts in your head. I
think, you know, it's it's about taste
and appreciation. And I often ask
myself, why is it that we love beer so
much? And I don't know the reason
because, you know, you can only drink so
many before you fall over. So maybe
that's the maybe that's the lovely
tension between the two.
>> Let's just stick on the technical
questions for a moment. How did you
figure this out? So like, okay, like
you've you've optimized something. How
did you go from, okay, you're going to
start a pub, it's going to be a big
investment up front, you want to get it
just right. How did was there AB
testing? Was there taste testing? Like,
what does that process look like of
making sure that the final mix of gas,
everything that you know you have it
right?
>> Well, I would say it's probably not
finished. And and I'll tell you the
reason why.
>> The question comes and I'm a good friend
of mine who's very very clever. He's
he's an American guy, scientist, food
scientist. We're actually talking to him
at the moment about the solubility of
those gases in the liquid.
>> So, at the end of the night, the gases
are turned off on those cakes. Okay? And
what that means is that if you leave the
pressure on, the solubility takes too
much of that gas into the the beer. The
beer becomes too foamy and too frothy.
But my question to him was, and we don't
know the answer yet. he's coming back in
June and we're going to try and figure
this out with OSH as well. Is that as
the um volume of beer in the keg reduces
the relative gas saturation to it could
be have a sliding scale of the
solubility but then there's a thing of
saturation of the solubility of the gas.
So, it's a really complicated thing,
probably a little bit above my um
understanding, but we're never happy
just going, you know what, that's
finished. And I think that's key with
anything to do with a restaurant.
>> But you get to do lots of taste testing
as you go along
to be fair. Um yeah, it's not a bad
place to be at work.
>> I know you've been at a bunch of
different restaurants, including
famously, um the chef at the Fat Duck
with H Blumenthal. When you go around
about setting up a menu, when you first
like go to the drawing board and say
this is what we want our menu to be, how
important are the actual economics and
the price points? Like would you say
this dish sounds phenomenal and I would
like to do it but actually the unit
economics don't really work for it. Um
in case of I mean the Devonshire
obviously when I joined Ashen Charlie
originally they just wanted one recipe
of a dish that we used to serve in in
Bray. I said yeah this is no problem I
can you know you can have it it's fine.
I said look you know why don't we why
don't we make something synonymous with
the pub and it was more about creating
things. The economic side is is really
really important but it's more about
what is it you're coming to experience?
What are you going to feel? What are we
what are we doing for you? Why are you
coming to us? So after the hours
Guinness chat, we then [laughter]
brought Guinness into the beef cheek and
sewer pudding and finish a sauce with
some Guinness and it became synonymous
with the pub. Um the process of the
menu, they had an idea of the framework
of what this menu would be. I came in
quite late, obviously just over a year
before we opened. For what year did it
open for those in the
>> uh November 23.
>> Okay.
>> Um so November 22 we started talking and
then in January uh 23 we sat down in in
Oshin's flat in in um Soho and uh we
just talked about food for 3 days
straight and it was based around that
framework. So we went through and there
are a few things that were were were
left off and a few things that were
added in
>> and I sort of was the conduit of of
almost like two parents uh input on what
they loved and what they didn't love
about certain things of what this thing
could be you know so
>> you know we wanted to do a scolop dish
and if we could buy scolops from this
diver up in Scotland and I don't know
maybe we'll make our own bacon and maybe
if we could use malt vinegar somehow. So
I would distill this down into a into a
plan. Add my sort of I don't know 25
years 30 years experience in in in
creating things but then creating things
that we could replicate on large
numbers. You know we'll do 650 covers
today in the restaurant for example. So
it's it's great making it for 50 but you
need to do it for a large volume. So
that's really where the there's a lovely
tension between that.
>> Actually talk more about that. I'm sort
of fascinated by the idea of okay, you
have a recipe, it might be good, but
that doesn't necessarily mean it's going
to be able to scale for and do it in
volume. I still like in my mind I don't
understand how restaurants work. How do
they get so much food out so fast? I
don't really understand how steakouses
work. Talk to us about building the the
repetition process.
>> Yeah. So, I mean, it's about it's about
experience. Experience and knowledge.
Yeah. is is probably the most powerful
thing that you can that you gain through
your career. You know, you think you
know everything at 25. Reality is 20
years later you know a lot more. Um and
I think it's about it's about
understanding how things work and where
mistakes can make can happen
>> where gaps are that allow those mistakes
to happen and fix in the root cause. So
reducing down mistakes gives you greater
consistency.
So when I am building recipes around a
dish, you want to put as much measurable
control in there as possible. Um clear,
simple, step-by-step approach. You know,
no information is stupid really because
you don't want to assume that people
know something that you don't make clear
to them in the first place. And then
it's about you know for example the all
all the beef that we have we have a room
probably bit bigger than this stage
where all the uh beef is aged downstairs
and um we have a grill in one of the
dining rooms called the grill room and
we burn oaken beach in a massive kiln.
It runs at 8 900°. We knock the em the
wood down into embers and then we lift
them onto the the ember beds and we cook
at different heights and temperatures.
And so you can cook the whole way, you
know, if you wanted a medium steak or a
medium, you know, um, beef chop, you
could do that the whole way, but it
would be a much more gentle process,
slower because you've got to allow that
heat to transfer in. We've set it up
slightly differently. We we cook very
quickly and and quite hot so that we
create the crust, we create the sear,
then it goes on to the next person which
is in the kitchen and they control
medium, medium well, medium rare, rare
and they look after it from there
because to do that for this many covers
all the way on the grill would be
impossible. You would need a grill five
times the size.
>> Joe, why did we decide to record this
conversation at dinner time?
>> I know. Um you you were talking about
beef just then and clearly earlier in
the conversation we were talking about
higher beef prices. How much of an issue
is that for someone who is actually
serving that meat at the restaurant?
>> Yeah. I mean it's it's it is a
challenge. I mean it went up quite a lot
over the last couple of years. Um
>> yeah and you specialize in beef. You
have a whole room dedicated.
>> It doesn't come down. It nothing ever
comes down to be fair. Um, occasionally
fish will come down, but you know,
pretty much, you know, we're now seeing
the effects like the guys were saying
earlier, you know, the fuel and and
prices are going up, you know, another
30p on a scolop. It's quite a lot, you
know. Um,
I think you just got to be clever. I
mean, we buy direct from abattoires
because of the scale that we can and and
and Charlie's relationships with
different beef um producers,
but it's about having uh a sort of um an
entry level. So, we use skirt steak, you
know, which is on our 29 menu for three
courses. Steak and chips, prawn
cocktail, and then um sticky toffee. And
it's about utilizing the right cut at
the right price for accessibility and a
and a sort of, you know, anyone can come
to our restaurant. It's not expensive,
but then you can come and spend, you
know, £100 on a on a beef chop, for
example. So, there's that there's that
range, you know, it's it's it's top and
bottom. Wait, this actually we were I
forget who we were talking about this
earlier, but we need to clear clear
something up. Is it true?
>> Oh, this was with Francine this morning.
Yeah.
>> Is it true that it's a really bad idea
to order the second most expensive wine
on the menu? This is a thing that they
always say that that but that is there
for suckers and that that's the one with
the highest margin. Can you talk about
wine pricing and is it true that you're
fooled to buy the second most expensive
one? Well, I'm sure in some places he
could be right, but I mean I can only
talk [laughter] about, you know,
>> what we do and um we have a nice list
and it and it does range, but it it
really does focus on that entry level.
So, instead of, you know, that old thing
of, you know, having your house wine and
it's the cheapest one and no one orders
it because it's the cheapest one and go
for the other one, we actually um work
with one of Ash's friends in Portugal
and he makes our Devincure wine. Now,
>> it's not our house wine. It punches a
little bit higher up the the list than
that, but the prices are down where
house wines are because we don't want to
penalize people for coming in at entry
level. But I think when you construct a
wine list, the higher you go up in the
value, the sort of better value you get,
the margins are less. We don't apply it
to a whole, you know, three or four
times across the whole thing and and you
know, hope for the best. It's you want
to be smart. You want to reward people
and encourage people to drink better.
How do you actually source new drink
better? That's right. Um, how do you
source new wine or new ingredients, new
suppliers? Are people pitching to you
all the time? Do they come to the
Devonshire and they're like, "We have
some great scallops from, you know, the
following origin at this particular
price or do you go out and try to find
them?"
>> Um, a bit of both. But I mean, a lot of
suppliers when when you do when you do
speak to someone, you say, you know, you
sure you can do the volume? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We we're going to need
like 3,000 scolops a week. Yeah. Yeah.
It's not a problem. And then you order
3,000 and they're like you you actually
do want 3,000. [laughter] I'm like, of
course I'm not trying I'm not not
telling you 3,000 to get them 10p
cheaper. It's, you know,
>> it's all about paying the right price, a
fair price for the best quality. And
that's what we're about. You know, if
you're trying to drive the price down on
everything all the time, you're never
going to have the best relationship with
the people that either are farming it,
catching it, and and and giving it to
you.
>> Wait, actually, this is this is really
interesting about that relationship. How
often
are are suppliers changing? You know,
like or when you come to an agreement
with a supplier, let's say, okay, you
find your scallop provider who can
deliver that volume, do you lock it in?
Do you say okay we're going to do this
for 6 months? Is it for a week? How does
like how does you come to an agreement
maybe you come to a price? What is the
duration of that agreement?
>> I mean that it varies massively. You
know the scolops for example it was last
week you know the fuel went up and you
know I'm going to have to put you know
30 p on a scolop. You know listening to
the guys on before me you know we listen
to those guys. So when it comes down
again you know fair is fair. I think
there's there's there's a there are
people out there that that take the
opportunity and you know exploit that a
little bit. I would say
>> um we like to build relationships that
last and mean something and we bring a
lot of our suppliers in uh to the
Devonshire. Most people come and enjoy
it as as as a place to come and you just
hope that you have this really great
honesty and integrity with these guys um
and and that everything's fair.
The bear has taught me that every
restaurant is always, you know, one
disaster away from absolute chaos and
probably bankruptcy and failure. When
something does happen, first of all, you
have to say whether or not you think The
Bear is a realistic take on the show if
you've seen it. But secondly, when
something does happen, like if a
supplier fails to deliver or if you
know, you expect to get, I don't know, a
load of spinach one week and it shows up
and it's terribly wilted and you can't
use it. What happens? How do you respond
to those kind of issues? Um, generally I
mean I let the team deal with most of
it, but we [laughter] we have a
>> it's not a honest answer,
>> but but with the caveat that when when I
step in or Ash steps in or Charlie steps
in, you know, it's it's pretty serious
and if it's repeated, there's always
going to be mistakes. It's how we
rectify those and make sure that it
doesn't happen again or we minimalize
that. But I always keep a, you know,
keep an eye on the messages that are
going between all the the the top chefs.
I call them, we got a group called the
top dogs uh in in the in the kitchen.
You know, you step in when you need to
step in. You know, if I need to phone
this fish supplier or whatever, you
know, it's a serious conversation, but
it's not I don't blast them down the
phone. It's just like, hey, look, what
is going on? And there's often, you
know, there's two sides to everything,
and you know, it it's just the the way
it is. Um, in terms of the bell, I've
not really got past episode two really.
>> Um,
>> that probably says something. too close
to home.
>> No, I don't I don't know. I think this
there's one of these things. I mean,
it'll be like these guys watching a a
trading film, you know,
>> or a racing driver watching a a Formula
1 film. It's it's never going to be 100%
as it is.
>> Yeah.
>> But, I mean, you've got to make
something that people are going to be
interested in and watch, and that's
going to be sensationalized, and it's
going to be dramatic, and but
restaurants are hard, pubs are, you
know, we're in a hard business. Yeah.
Um,
>> do you yell as much as the chefs on the
bear? No, I I don't yell to be honest.
Um, it's much better to be silent and,
you know,
>> oh, that's more intimidating,
>> considered, [laughter]
>> have the gravitas,
>> but I I I try and I try and do things a
different way, you know, and and
encourage people to, you know, you get
young chefs that are a little bit afraid
when you're around and you I can't
compute why, you know, um, just want to
make them, you know, happy and do a
great job, which is what we're all
about.
>> All right. I totally believe you that
it's No, I I totally believe you that
you know you want the menu that you want
to be accessible to rich and poor and
that you want fair relationships or fair
agreements, all this stuff you want to
be accessible. It's part of the ethos of
the pubs in general, etc. Okay, all that
being said, at some there have to be
times where, okay, your prices, your
suppliers prices go up, so you have to
raise menu prices, right? How do you
decide when to make that decision? This
is the question that like people from
the Bank of England might be listening
because they're trying to understand
about how much inflation pricing power
uh retail establishments have. How do
you think about when that to make that
decision? It's like you know what we're
going to have to adjust to higher
prices.
>> We've we've only done it once on a few
things really since we opened. Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. We we operate slightly different.
We're not a massive group. We're not run
by the accounts department. We're run by
giving people the best time. um what
what do we think that we can that's
acceptable to to pass on and it and it
won't be at the rate of inflation. Some
things haven't changed. Um but it's you
know can we put 50 p on on a side order
you know it's 10% but it's 10% over two
and a half years and that probably won't
change this year either.
>> Um how do we become more clever with our
purchasing? How do we become
>> how do you become more clever with what
>> with the purchasing? Oh
>> okay. Yeah.
>> How do we do we need to look at it? How
can we be more efficient in production?
How can we waste less? You know, these
are all things. How can we look at labor
in a slightly different way? You know,
if we if we make this small change and
and someone come, we have two people in
at 6:00 instead of one at 5 and one at
7, is that more productive when it comes
to making bread, for example. Um, so
it's really not run on that economic
side. It's more about what are we
comfortable charging for that? And we
never want to be thought of as expensive
or, you know, exclusive or excluding
people from coming in.
>> That's interesting. So the some of the
most important levers you have to offset
higher costs don't have anything to do
with actually raising menu prices.
>> No. Talk to us about I don't know if you
like this label or not, but the rise of
the gastro pub in the UK because it does
feel like you have this sort of division
now between pubs that are all liquid
that don't sell food except for bags of
like Walker Crisps or something. Um and
then you have and they're not doing very
well. They're closing a lot. And then
you have the successful pubs and all of
them seem to serve food.
>> Yeah. I mean, [sighs] you know, there's
a there's a big range there. I mean,
wetled pubs are really popular. You
know, our local is in Soho and and it's
really busy. It's a great place to go,
but it's really kind of old-fashioned in
a way. Um, I think the danger is when
you when you have people driving the
economics of menus. examples, purchasing
departments are dictating to, you know,
maybe small, mid, large groups that
have, let's say, chefs that run the
kitchen
>> with some sort of autonomy, but actually
they're being told what to have. And
actually, this comes from a central
kitchen. And I do understand it. I'm
lucky I don't live in that world. Um, it
would be very painful, I'd imagine, and
probably not how a a real chef would
want to do it. And I think those things
are very difficult because it's easy to
cut quality, cut cost, put the price up,
and and none of that, that's a race to
the bottom. But I think depending on who
those people are and how your little
microclimate of a business is,
it's it's it's hard to fight against
that when you're just a chef, when
you've got a big group and you've got a
board and, you know, returns, etc.
>> So, you know, we're lucky we're not in
that um at the moment. And um well we
won't we will never be um which is good
and and that's the way we we focus on
why people want to come to us and that's
why we've got 650 people in for dinner
lunch and dinner today. You know they
want to be there. It's the right price
and and they have a great time. We make
them feel good.
Is there a difference between just sort
of, you know, conceptually or menu
design or anything between a, you know,
how you think about the business of a
true local where every where it's the
same people day in and day out and it's
their pub versus a place such as yours
where yes, of course, you have regulars,
but also you're going to have people who
are just only going to be there one time
in their life.
>> Yeah. I mean the one surprising thing
with the Devonshire is I thought there
wouldn't be this local thing you know
because it's London it's busy you know
you wouldn't see those locals there are
so many locals that come you know as
part of our inner circle but then also
customers from all over the country from
Europe that even Australia the first
place they come when they come here
every year they come to Devonshire so I
consider them a local when they come you
know when they can only come once or
twice a year they're in as well. And I
think, you know,
it's it's about
a real eclectic bunch of cool people
that just want to have a bit of escapism
time, you know?
>> Wait, how are the locals getting
reservations consistently? Because when
I told everyone we were going to
interview you, the first question they
had was, "Oh, can he like get us into
the Devonshire?" Yeah, it's a bit of a
tricky one this. Um, well, the best way
is to book online. Um, we release
[laughter]
tables every Thursday at 10:30 in the
morning. We release a whole week's worth
in 3 weeks, but you need to be ready,
card ready, etc., etc. Um, if you can't
do that, we do take about 100 walk-ins a
day, which is quite a lot, you know. So,
if people are patient, they're polite to
the team, you know, they're happy to
have a drink, wait 10, 15 minutes, we
will take as many people as we possibly
can. We hate saying no. Um, so those
that persist a little bit more than
others, they do get in.
>> We recorded earlier with your
co-founder, Oishin, and he told us to
ask you this question, and I'm not sure
he thought we were actually going to ask
you it, or if he meant for us to
actually ask you it live on stage, but
I'm going to give it a go. Um, he said
that we should ask you about gifts for
the guys from Apple while you were at
the Fat Duck.
>> Oh, yeah. Oh, that's a good one,
actually. Um, oh Ashin loves all the he
loves all the stories, right? And um I
think that's a big part of what we do.
It's about storytelling. I'll come back
to that on the menu. Um what was it? I
was in the office one day. I was at I
was in Bray. So we have this corner
office. Fat Duck's over there. Hines
head's there. The crown's down there.
And we got a call in from Johnny Ies uh
PA saying, "Listen, Johnny's just
finishing his British holiday. He's
going back on his private jet. would you
be able to um will we be able to buy
some food from dinner by Hestston which
was my restaurant in London?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh the hines head and we we serve it on
the on the plane on the way back and
we're like yeah why not let's let's do
it. So I had about a week and a half and
I thought one of our famous dishes at
dinner was is called a meat fruit which
is from the 1500s when Victorians used
to make um meat and fish look like
fruit. So when you cut into it it's
something else. So, we put a duck liver
parfait inside a mandarin jelly and it
even had the dimples on and everything.
The most incredible texture pate, but of
course it was an orange. So, I was like,
"Wow, it would be amazing if we could
make an apple."
>> And so, I went into the development
kitchen. I had one guy working with me
on a day-to-day basis. I said, "Look, we
got to make an apple in a week and a
half, and it's going to be served on
this plane for Johnny IV. This is going
to be brilliant." Um, but as you know,
apple as soon as you cut into it, it
discolors the oxidizes. So, how do you
make a really green apple that doesn't
taste oxidized or look oxidized? Anyway,
we made this thing look like a Granny
Smith with even the air bubbles, like
the little sort of dots on it. And so, I
sent five oranges and one apple in the
middle. And I thought, "This is it. He's
going to be on the phone going, "This is
bloody brilliant. You need to come out
see Apple." didn't hear a word.
[laughter]
>> So, I'll see him one day. I'll remind
him.
>> Maybe one day he'll come on. If he ever
comes on our podcast, we'll
>> Go back to that menu thing. Yeah.
>> When we when we were doing this, you
when you construct your menu and you you
lay out your stall of your your
restaurant and what you want to give
people, it's really important to look
at, you know, 10 15 things that you
really want to drive home. So, there's a
bakery downstairs, you know, for the
bacon sandwich, which is on the on the
um bar menu. We make the bread, we make
the bacon, we make the butter. That's a
great little story. And it it's it's
not, you know, groundbreaking or
anything, but most people aren't doing
that. So, it becomes real there becomes
this value in in the storytelling that
you're actually doing. It's no good
making up fake things that that you
don't do because you will get caught.
But
>> yeah,
>> it's about what are those stories? Yeah,
I can't imagine there are many places
making their own butter and making their
own bacon. The you're um you're talking
about the designing of the apple and the
oranges actually reminded me of a
question I wanted to ask in the pub
context. How much creativity can you
have in the food beyond which is like
this isn't pub food anymore? Like is
there you know there's so much tradition
bound up in the concept of a pub. How
far can you push how do you think about
like pushing what the the edges of what
is pub food?
>> It's a real tricky one that because like
for me I grew up in Dorset and and pub
food was you know scampion chips, fish
and chips, sausage and mash. That's not
what we do at the Devonshire but we're
in a completely different time you know
um
food is always evolving. Obviously it's
I think it's about simplicity. It's
about quality, boldness with hidden
things that make things taste good. So,
for example, if you come to the
Devonshire and you order the the lamb
cutlets, for example, we hang the lamb
14 days, so you get this really great
flavor. The lamb comes from Cornwall,
beautifully French trimmed, and then we
take the fat from the bone and then we
render that down. And then I I don't
know if this is an American thing or
not, but it's definitely is here.
English, we drink, we have um mint sauce
with lamb, right?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> So, we take the lamb fat and then we
pick mint leaves and then when the lamb
fat is cool, we add the mint leaves in.
So, it's cold infused. You get all the
sort of volatile aromomas from the mint
into the lamb fat and we simply brush
that on to the lamb just before serving.
Right? So, you can imagine it's there's
fat, there's lamb, there's mint, there's
salt [snorts] and there's a bit of
pepper. That's it. It just looks like a
lamb chop. But the actual impact of that
is so much greater than what you see and
feel, you know.
>> All right, everyone go see this man for
reservations at the Devonshire.
>> Ask for Ashen. All right. Yeah.
>> Ashley Palmer Watts, that was amazing.
Thank you so much.
>> Thanks very much. [applause]
[applause]
>> All right. Thank you so much for
listening to our special two-part
episode all about the Devincure Pub. I'm
Tracy Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Alaway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our
producers, Carmen Rodriguez, at Carmen
Arman, dashelennet atbot, Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks, and Kevin Lozano at Kevin
Lloyd Lozano.
>> And for more odds content, you can find
our daily newsletter over at
bloomberg.coms.
>> And you can chat about all of these
topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlot.
And if you enjoy Odd Thoughts, then
please like the video or comment or
better yet subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.